
--- Page 1 ---
 
 
   
 
Counterpoint Global Insights  
Wealth Transfers  
Redistribution of Value via Capital Allocation  
 
CONSILIENT OBSERVER   |  May 10 , 2022
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction  
The core of capitalism is the private ownership of the means of 
production in the pursuit of economic profit. A company generates 
a positive economic profit when it earns a return on investment in 
excess of the opportunity cost of capital.  
Competition is a feature of capitalism. A company earning a 
handsome economic profit will attract competitors that seek to 
wrest that profit away either by selling similar goods or services at 
a lower cost or by providing attractive substitute offerings.  
Productive investment is the engine of capitalism. Companies 
spend on tangible or intangible assets with the expectation that 
future cash flows, discounted to the present, will be worth more 
than the outlay. Successful investment creates wealth because 
one dollar of investment is worth more than one dollar in value.  
Creditors and equity holders  provide the capital to invest. Creditors 
have a senior claim on cash flows and hence have lower risk and 
expected return than equity holders. Equity holders have a r esidual 
claim on cash flows, so they have higher risk and potential reward. 
Once a company is up and running, the primary source of 
investment capital tends to be cash that is generated internally. 
Since 1980, internal financing has supplied more than 90 p ercent 
of the capital for investment in the U.S.1 This can come from 
retained earnings or other stakeholders, including suppliers.2 
Capital allocation is arguably a management team’s most 
important task. The goal of capital allocation is to put resources t o 
their best and highest use so as to create long -term value per share 
for ongoing shareholders. You can think of capital allocation in two 
parts. One is investing in the business, which includes familiar  
forms such as capital expenditures, intangible asse ts, and mergers 
and acquisitions.  
The other is transacting with securities that have prices that are 
based on corporate value , including buying and selling the debt and 
equity of a company. This introduces  the potential for a wealth 
transfer, where one sta keholder benefits at the expense of another.  
 
  
AUTHORS  
 
Michael J. Mauboussin  
michael.mauboussin@morganstanley.com  
 
Dan Callahan , CFA  
dan.callahan1@morganstanley.com  
--- Page 2 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  2 
 
Wealth Transfers  
A wealth transfer occurs when a company buys or sells a mispriced securit y.3 We focus on equity. The intuition 
is straightforward and amounts to little more than “buy low and sell high.” The essential issue is whether 
executives can discern between price a nd value. In theory, they should have information about the prospects 
for their companies that investors lack . This can provid e an opportunity to initiate a wealth transfer.  
The empirical research on the topic comes to a few conclusions . First, companies can indeed time the sale and 
purchase of equity so as to benefit ongoing shareholders.4 Second, wealth transfers tend to be larger for sales 
of overpriced equity than they are  for purchases of undervalued equity .5 Third, institutional investors are 
generally more discerning than individual investors when transact ing with a company.6 
Richard Sloan and Haifeng You, professors of accounting, find that companies buying and selling equity transfer 
one to two percent of the pre -deal market value from the transacting shareholders to the ongoing shareholders, 
measured five years after the event.7 
An important implication of these transfers is that a stock’s dollar -weighted average retur n can be less than its 
time-weighted return . Total shareholder returns are generally  reported using time -weighted returns. This concept 
is related to the observation that mutual fund investors generally earn lower returns than the funds in which they 
inves t because of poor timing. For example, the dollar -weighted returns were 117 basis points lower than time -
weighted returns for U.S. equity mutual funds for the 10 years ended December 31, 2020.8 
Ilia Dichev, a professor of accounting, provides an example to make the point clear (we modify his numbers 
modestly).9 A company starts with 1,000 shares of a stock that trades at $100 a share. The stock then doubles 
to $200 and the company sells 1,000 shares. Finally, the stock returns to $100.  
It is obvio us that the initial shareholders are flat on their investment and the new shareholders are down 50 
percent. In fact, in this scenario the dollar -weighted return is -26.8 percent, measured using internal  rate of return 
(IRR). But the time -weighted return is  zero because the stock ended where it began.  
This analysis is based on price change, which is what investors ultimately care about. Wealth transfers rely on 
a stock being mispriced, which presumes that price differs from intrinsic value. When we introduce  value, we 
can observe that selling overvalued stock and buying back undervalued stock add to firm value per share. 
Symmetrically, buying back overvalued stock and selling undervalued stock subtract from firm value per share 
(see exhibit 1).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- Page 3 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  3 
 
Exhibi t 1: Wealth Transfers Via Equity Transactions  
 
Source: Counterpoint Global.  
Let’s return to our example. Say the intrinsic value of the firm at the outset is $100,000 and that the price  
accurately reflects that value  ($100 per share x 1,000 shares outstan ding = $100,000) . The stock rises to $200, 
and the firm sells 1,000 shares. The new value of the firm is $300,000 ($300,000 = $100,000 + $200,000 in 
proceeds) and the value per share rises from $100 to $150 per share ($150 = $300,000 ÷ 2,000 shares 
outstan ding). The wealth transfer is from the buying shareholders to ongoing holders, which becomes clear if 
the stock price declines to $150 and matches its new value per share. Buying shareholders lose $50 per share 
while the ongoing holders gain $50. Note that  the price regresses to a higher value.  
We can start with the same intrinsic value and price and see what happens if the company buys back 
undervalued stock. Now assume the stock drops from $100 to $50 and the company repurchases 500 shares. 
The value of t he firm decreases to $75,000 ($75,000 = $100,000 - $25,000  repurchase cost ) but the value per 
share increases to $150 per share ($150 = $75,000 ÷ 500 shares outstanding). The wealth transfer is from the 
selling shareholders to the ongoing holders if price and the new value align. Selling shareholders lose $50 per 
share and ongoing holders gain $50.  
A company that sells overvalued stock increases the value per share for the ongoing holders . But it should be 
noted that those holders would be better off sellin g alongside the firm. A company that buys undervalued stock 
also augments value per share. But in this case, ongoing shareholders improve their situation by doing nothing.  
This analysis is relevant for stocks that gain attention through social media and ap peal primarily to retail 
investors. These are colloquially called “meme stocks” because the individuals who buy them commonly react 
to ideas developed and spread on the Internet.10 Consider that the net daily purchases of U.S equities and 
exchange -traded funds by individuals at the height of popularity for meme stocks was roughly 10 times the level 
of purchases in 2019 before major online brokerage firms moved to  zero commissions.11 
The large price changes of these stocks suggest mispricing. These stock price spikes present an opportunity for 
a wealth transfer via corporate action.  
Stock Price
Undervalued Overvalued
Company
BuysSells•Buyers gain
•Ongoing holders lose•Buyers lose
•Ongoing holders gain
•Sellers lose
•Ongoing holders gain•Sellers gain
•Ongoing holders lose
--- Page 4 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  4 
 
We designated value in our example so as to illustrate the point. But in reality, determining intrinsic  value is 
much more difficult. To simplify our analysis, we use the average target price of the sell -side analysts who cover 
a stock as a proxy for intrinsic value. As is generally known, target prices are not very accurate and tend to be 
optimistic. This means that realized prices tend to fall short of the target.12 The math of wealth transfers still 
works, but the magnitude of the effect is muted if the target price is higher than the intrinsic value.  
The recent case of GameStop, a retailer of video games  and consumer electronics, is an example of equity 
issuance executed at a price that substantially exceeded value as implied by the target price of analysts. On 
April 9, 2021, GameStop had 65.3 million shares outstanding and the stock closed at $158.36. Be tween June 9 
and June 22, GameStop sold 5 million shares at an average price of $225.20 per share. During the time of the 
sale, the average target price was $65.48.  
The intrinsic value increased from $65.48 to $76.84 per share, a gain of more than 17 perc ent, as a result of the 
issuance.13 On August 11, 2021, the stock closed at $158.78. Measuring stock price returns from roughly two 
months before the issuance  to two months after reveals a n IRR of -1.4 percent  but a time -weighted gain of 0.3 
percent.  
Anoth er noteworthy aspect of the transaction is that the company added more than $1.1 billion to its balance 
sheet. This introduces a capital allocation opportunity and risk. The capital creates additional wealth if it is 
deployed into the operations and earns a return in excess of the cost of capital. But an investment below the 
cost of capital is a drag on the value of the operations.14 
AMC Entertainment Holdings, a movie theater chain, is another company with equity that qualified as a meme 
stock. The company  sold stock in a similar fashion. Indeed, its actions had an even larger impact on intrinsic 
value than was the case for GameStop. AMC chose to deploy some of its cash into a gold mine company, 
Hycroft Mining, hence diversifying away from its core operatio ns.15 
Conclusion  
Companies can affect wealth in a couple of ways. First, they can make investments in their operations that earn 
in excess of the cost of capital. This activity benefits capital providers. But sustaining returns above the cost of 
capital is  challenging because of competition and the inevitable maturation of various markets for goods or 
services.  
Companies can also transfer wealth by buying or selling mispriced stock. The evidence shows that in the 
aggregate companies do sell high and buy low, which means that transacting shareholders fare worse than 
ongoing holders.  
Astute investors focus on a management’s ability to allocate capital and tend to focus on investments in the 
business. This is appropriate. But investors should also be aware o f the impact of management actions with 
regard to their own stock. The essential guide is the gap between price and value.  
Finally, many investors count on mispriced stocks regressing toward  their value per share over time as a means 
to generate excess ret urns. Wealth transfers show that actions by management can change the value per share 
without any change in the underlying fundamentals of the operations.  
 
Please see I mportant Disclosures on pages 7-9  
--- Page 5 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  5 
 
Endnotes  
1 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Division of Research and Statistics, Flow of Funds 
Accounts Table F. 103. See https://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/z1/20220310/z1.pdf, page  18. 
2 This can be seen through analysis of the cash conversion cycle, a measure of how long it takes to co nvert 
investments in inventory into cash. Companies with a negative cash conversion cycle receive cash for the goods 
or services they produce before they have to pay their suppliers. This timing difference is a source of cash as 
long as the business grows.  
3 Wealth transfers can happen by other means as well. One of the best examples is captured in the principal -
agent problem. In this case, the principal is the shareholder and the agent is the manager of the business. The 
problem arises when the agent enric hes his or herself, for instance through unnecessary perquisites, that 
transfer wealth from the principal to the agent. Other potential but more ambiguous cases include leveraged 
recapitalizations, where companies borrow money to repurchase stock, and spin offs. 
4 Amy Dittmar and Laura Casares Field, “Can Managers Time the Market? Evidence Using Repurchase Price 
Data,” Journal of Financial Economics , Vol. 115, No. 2, February 2015, 261 -282; Richard G. Sloan and Haifeng 
You, “Wealth Transfers via Equity Transfers,” Journal of Financial Economics, Vol. 118, No. 1, October 2015, 
93-112; Ilona Babenko, Yuri Tserlukevich, and Pengcheng Wan, “Is Market Timing Good for Shareholders?” 
Management Scie nce, Vol. 66, No. 8, August 2020, 3542 -3560; and Dinis Daniel Santos and Paulo Gama, 
“Timing the Market with Own Stock: An Extensive Analysis with Buying and Selling Evidence,” International 
Journal of Managerial Finance, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2020, 141 -164. 
5 A related finding is that “IPO firms underperform the market for the three and five years after the IPO.” From 
Michelle Lowry, Roni Michaely, and Ekaterina Volkova, “Initial Public Offerings: A Synthesis of the Literature and 
Directions for Future Research, ” Foundations and Trends in Finance , Vol. 11, No. 3 -4, 2017, 154 -320. 
6 R. Jared DeLisle, Justin D. Morscheck, and John R. Nofsinger, “Share Repurchases and Wealth Transfer 
Among Shareholders,” Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , Vol. 76, May 2020, 368-378; Randolph B. 
Cohen, Paul A. Gompers, and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, “Who Underreacts to Cash -Flow News? Evidence from 
Trading between Individuals and Institutions,” Journal of Financial Economics , Vol. 66, Nos. 2 -3, November -
December 2002, 409 -462; and Joh n R. Nofsinger and Richard W. Sias, “Herding and Feedback Trading by 
Institutional and Individual Investors,” Journal of Finance  , Vol. 54, No. 6, December 1999, 2263 -2295.  
7 Sloan and You, “Wealth Transfers via Equity Transfers” and Ulrike Malmendier, “Be havioral Corporate 
Finance,” in B. Douglas Bernheim, Stefano Della Vigna, and David Laibson, eds., Handbook of Behavioral 
Economics —Foundations and Applications  1 (Amsterdam: North Holland, 2018), 277 -380. 
8 Amy C. Arnott, “Mind the Gap 2021: A Report on I nvestor Returns in the United States,” Morningstar , August 
31, 2021.  
9 Ilia D. Dichev, “What Are Stock Investors’ Actual Historical Returns? Evidence from Dollar -Weighted Returns,” 
American Economic Review , Vol. 97, No. 1, March 2007, 386 -401. 
10 The Merri am-Webster dictionary defines a meme as “an idea, behavior, style, or usage that spreads from 
person to person within a culture.”  
11 Spencer Jakab, The Revolution That Wasn't: GameStop, Reddit, and the Fleecing of Small Investors  (New 
York: Portfolio/Pengu in, 2022), 139.  
12 Stefano Bonini, Laura Zanetti, Roberto Bianchini, and Antonio Salvi, “Target Price Accuracy in Equity 
Research,” Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , Vol. 37, Nos. 9 and 10, November/December 2010, 
1177 -1217; Mark T. Bradshaw, Lawr ence D. Brown, and Kelly Huang, “Do Sell -side Analysts Exhibit Differential 
Target Price Forecasting Ability?” Review of Accounting Studies , Vol. 18, No. 4, December 2013, 930 -955; and 
Mark T. Bradshaw, “The Use of Target Prices to Justify Sell -Side Analys ts’ Stock Recommendations,” 
Accounting Horizons , Vol. 16, No. 1, March 2002, 27 -41. Target prices can be improved through the use of 
distributions. See Guy Weyns, Juan -Luis Perez, Barry Hurewitz, and Vlad Jenkins, “Morgan Stanley’s Risk -
Reward Views: Unloc king the Full Potential of Fundamental Analysis,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , 
Vol. 23, No. 2, Spring 2011, 59 -68; Patricia M. Dechow and Haifeng You, “Understanding the Determinants of 
Analyst Target Price Implied Returns,” Accounting Review , Vol. 95, No. 6, November 2020, 125 -149. 
13 Here’s the math. The company’s implied intrinsic value before the transaction was $4,276 million, or 65.3 
million shares times $65.48 per share. The company sold stock worth $1,126 million, the product of 5 million 
--- Page 6 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  6 
 
shares and a price of $225.20. The new value of the firm is $5,402 million, or $4,276 plus $1,126 million, which 
divided by the new shares outstanding of 70.3 million (65.3 + 5.0 million) equals $76.84 per share.  
14 “Investment” is one of the factors (othe rs include size, value, momentum, and quality) in a number of prominent 
factor models that seek to explain equity returns beyond the output of the capital asset pricing model. The 
common way to measure investment is the growth in assets, and the general co nclusion is that rapid asset 
growth is associated with poor subsequent total shareholder returns. More recent  work parses asset growth into 
investment and non -investment components. Rapid asset growth as the result of investment growth does not 
predict poo r returns. By contrast, rapid asset growth as the result of equity issuance but without investment 
does. See Michael Cooper, Huseyin Gulen, and Mihai Ion, “The Use of Asset Growth in Empirical Asset Pricing 
Models,” Working Paper , August 2020.  
15 Alexander  Gladstone and Caitlin McCabe, “A New Meme -Stock Frenzy Led AMC to Gold Mine Stake,” Wall 
Street Journal , March 15, 2022.  
 
 
 
--- Page 7 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  7 
 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION  
 
The views and opinions and/or analysis expressed  are those of the author as of the date of preparation of this 
material and are subject to change at any time due to market or economic conditions and may not necessarily 
come to pass. Furthermore, the views will not be updated or otherwise revised to refle ct information that 
subsequently becomes available or circumstances existing, or changes occurring, after the date of publication. 
The views expressed do not reflect the opinions of all investment personnel at Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management (MSIM) an d its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively “the Firm”),  and may not be reflected in all 
the strategies and products that the Firm offers.  
 
Forecasts and/or estimates provided herein are subject to change and may not actually come to pass. 
Information  regarding expected market returns and market outlooks is based on the research, analysis and 
opinions of the authors or the investment team. These conclusions are speculative in nature, may not come to 
pass and are not intended to predict the future perfo rmance of any specific strategy or product the Firm offers. 
Future results may differ significantly depending on factors such as changes in securities or financial markets or 
general economic conditions.  
 
Past performance is no guarantee of future results.  This material has been prepared on the basis of publicly 
available information, internally developed data and other third -party sources believed to be reliable. However, 
no assurances are provided regarding the reliability of such information and the Firm  has not sought to 
independently verify information taken from public and third -party sources.  The views expressed in the books 
and articles referenced in this whitepaper are not necessarily endorsed by the Firm . 
 
This material  is a general communications which is not impartial and has been prepared solely for information 
and educational purposes and does not constitute an offer or a recommendation to buy or sell any particular 
security or to adopt any specific investment strategy. The material contained he rein has not been based on a 
consideration of any individual client circumstances and is not investment advice, nor should it be construed in 
any way as tax, accounting, legal or regulatory advice. To that end, investors should seek independent legal 
and f inancial advice, including advice as to tax consequences, before making any investment decision.  
 
Charts and graphs provided herein are for illustrative purposes only. Any securities referenced herein are solely 
for illustrative purposes only and should no t be construed as a recommendation for investment.  
 
This material is not a product of Morgan Stanley’s Research Department and should not be regarded as a 
research material or a recommendation.  
 
The Firm has not authorised financial intermediaries to use and to distribute this material , unless such use and 
distribution is made in accordance with applicable law and regulation. Additionally, financial intermediaries are 
required to satisfy themselves that the information in this material is appropriate for any person to whom they 
provide this material in view of that person’s circumstances and purpose. The Firm  shall not be liable for, and 
accepts no liability for, the use or misuse of this material by any such financial intermediary.  
 
The whole or any part of this work may not be directly or indirectly reproduced, copied, modified, used to create 
a derivative work, performed, displayed, published, posted, licensed, framed, distributed or transmitted or any 
of its contents disclosed to thi rd parties without MSIM’s express written consent. This work may not be linked to 
unless such hyperlink is for personal and non -commercial use. All information contained herein is proprietary 
and is protected under copyright and other applicable law.  
 
Eaton Vance is part of Morgan Stanley Investment Management. Morgan Stanley Investment Management is 
the asset management division of Morgan Stanley.  
 
This material  may be translated into other languages. Where such a translation is made this English version 
remains definitive. If there are any discrepancies between the English version and any version of this material  
in another language, the English version shall prevail.  
 
 
 
--- Page 8 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  8 
 
DISTRIBUTION  
 
This communication is only intended for and will only be distributed to persons resident in jurisdictions 
where such distribution or availability would not be contrary to local laws or regulations.  
 
MSIM, the asset management division of Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS), and its affiliates have 
arrangements in place to  market each other’s products and services.   Each MSIM affiliate is regulated 
as appropriate in the jurisdiction it operates.  MSIM’s affiliates are:  Eaton Vance Management 
(International) Limited, Eaton Vance Advisers International Ltd, Calvert Research an d Management, 
Eaton Vance Management, Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC, and Atlanta Capital Management LLC.  
 
This material has been issued by any one or more of the following entities:  
 
EMEA:  
This material is for Professional Clients/Accredited Invest ors only.  
 
In the EU, MSIM and Eaton Vance materials are issued by MSIM Fund Management (Ireland) Limited (“FMIL”). 
FMIL is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland and is incorporated in Ireland as a private company limited by 
shares with company registr ation number 616661 and has its registered address at The Observatory, 7 -11 Sir 
John Rogerson's Quay, Dublin 2, D02 VC42, Ireland.  
 
Outside the EU, MSIM materials are issued by Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited (MSIM Ltd) is 
authorised and regu lated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registered in England. Registered No. 1981121. 
Registered Ofﬁce: 25 Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QA.  
 
In Switzerland, MSIM materials are issued by Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, London (Zurich Branch) 
Authorised and regulated by the Eidgenössische Finanzmarktaufsicht ("FINMA"). Registered Office: 
Beethovenstrasse 33, 8002 Zurich, Switzerland.  
 
Outside the US and EU, Eaton Vance materials are issued by Eaton Vance Management (International) Limi ted 
(“EVMI”) 125 Old Broad Street, London, EC2N 1AR, UK, which is authorised and regulated in the United 
Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority.   
 
Italy:  MSIM FMIL (Milan Branch), (Sede Secondaria di Milano) Palazzo Serbelloni Corso Venezia, 16 20121 
Milano, Italy. The Netherlands: MSIM FMIL (Amsterdam Branch), Rembrandt Tower, 11th Floor Amstelplein 1 
1096HA, Netherlands. France:  MSIM FMIL (Paris Branch), 61 rue de Monceau 75008 Paris, France. Spain: 
MSIM FMIL (Madrid Branch), Calle Serrano 55, 28006, Madrid, Spain.   
 
MIDDLE EAST:  
Dubai : MSIM Ltd (Representative Office, Unit Precinct 3 -7th Floor -Unit 701 and 702, Level 7, Gate Precinct 
Building 3, Dubai International Financial Centre, Dubai, 506501, U nited Arab Emirates. Telephone: +97 (0)14 
709 7158).  
 
U.S.:   
NOT FDIC INSURED | OFFER NO BANK GUARANTEE | MAY LOSE VALUE | NOT INSURED BY ANY 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AGENCY | NOT A BANK DEPOSIT  
 
Hong Kong: This material is disseminated by Morgan Stanley Asia Limited for use in Hong Kong and shall only 
be made available to “professional investors” as defined under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong 
Kong (Cap 571). The contents of this material have not been reviewed nor approved by any regulatory  authority 
including the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong. Accordingly, save where an exemption is 
available under the relevant law, this material shall not be issued, circulated, distributed, directed at, or made 
available to, the public in Hong Kong.  Singapore: This material is disseminated by Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management Company and  may not be circulated or distributed, whether directly or indirectly, to persons in 
Singapore other than to (i ) an accredited investor (ii) an expert investor or (iii) an institutional investor as defined 
in Section 4A of the Securities and Futures Act, Chapter 289 of Singapore (“SFA”); or (iv) otherwise pursuant 
to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any o ther applicable provision of the SFA. This publication has not 
--- Page 9 ---
  
 
 
© 2022 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  4718440 Exp. 5/31/2023  9 
 
been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.    Australia: This material  is disseminated in Australia 
by Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Australia) Pty Limited  ACN: 122040037, AFS L No. 314182, which 
accept responsibility for its contents. This publication, and any access to it, is intended only for “wholesale clients” 
within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act.  Calvert Research and Management, ARBN 635 157 434  
is regula ted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under U.S. laws which differ from Australian laws. 
Calvert Research and Management is exempt from the requirement to hold an Australian financial services 
licence in accordance with class order 03/1100 in respect of the provision of financial services to wholesale 
clients in Australia.  
 
Japan: This material  may not be circulated or distributed, whether directly or indirectly, to persons in Japan 
other than to (i) a professional investor as defined in Articl e 2 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act 
(“FIEA”) or (ii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other allocable provision of 
the FIEA. This material  is disseminated in Japan by Morgan Stanley Investment Management (J apan) Co., Ltd., 
Registered No. 410 (Director of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments Firms)), Membership: the 
Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Investment Trusts Association, Japan, the Japan Investment 
Advisers Association and the Ty pe II Financial Instruments Firms Association.  