
--- Page 1 ---
 
 
.   
 
Counterpoint Global Insights  
Confidence  
Methods to Assess Confidence Under Uncertainty  
 
CONSILIENT OBSERVER   |  March  22, 2023
Introduction  
Investing is an activity that is inherently probabilistic. Nearly all 
investment opportunities present a range of possible outcomes 
with some chance of occurring. The goal is to invest in situations 
where the expected value, the sum of the potential outcom es 
times the probability that they happen, is different than the price.  
Coming up with thoughtful probabilities can be hard. Academics 
who study the intelligence community find it useful to distinguish 
between probability and confidence.1 Probability is an “estimate of 
the chances that a statement is true” and confidence is “the 
degree to which an analyst believes that he or she possesses a 
sound basis for assessing uncertainty.”2 The important point is 
that these are distinct concepts tha t often get combined. We 
believe that it is useful for investors to separate them.  
One way to recognize the distinction between probability and 
confidence is to consider how judges instruct juries to come up 
with guilty verdicts in U.S. criminal cases. The  prosecutors must 
prove that the defendant is guilty “beyond all reasonable doubt,” 
which means there are no other reasonable explanations for the 
evidence. A jury must return a verdict of “not guilty” if their 
confidence in the evidence is low, even if th ey think the probability 
the defendant is guilty is high.  
This report discusses  a framework for evaluating analytic 
confidence developed by Jeffrey  Friedman, a professor of 
government , and  Richard Zeckhauser, a professor of political 
economy. Investors sh ould find this valuable for a couple reasons. 
First, it is useful to have an operating model for measuring 
confidence so that it is possible to distinguish between cases 
where the probabilities are the same and confidence levels differ .  
Second, confidence  can play an important role in the investment 
process. For example, the price of two investment opportunities 
may present the same discount to expected value, but confidence 
in the probabilities for one may exceed those of the other. That 
nuance may be rel evant for determining the appropriate weighting 
of securities within a portfolio or evaluating diversification.3 
  
AUTHORS  
 
Michael J. Mauboussin  
michael.mauboussin@morganstanley.com  
 
Dan Callahan , CFA  
dan.callahan1@morganstanley.com  
--- Page 2 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 2 
 
Common Ways to Describe Confidence  
The first challenge is to pin down what confidence means. Scholars use the term in different senses. Daniel 
Kahneman, a professor emeritus of psychology and the winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic 
Sciences, suggests that confidence is a feeling based on how clearly and easily a person processes the 
information they have. For example, members on one side of the political spectrum are m ore confident in their 
judgments than those on the other side.4 Kahneman notes that  “declarations  of high confidence mainly tell you 
that an individual has constructed a coherent story in his mind, not necessarily that the story is true .”5    
Another sense  relates to the accuracy of judgments. For example, a person is overconfident if his or her 
subjective probabilities exceed the objective outcomes. While decision makers can be underconfident, there is 
substantial evidence that forecasters, even those deem ed to be experts, are overconfident.6 This is especially 
true when participants are certain that their answers are correct.7      
Finally, confidence is sometimes described in statistical terms, reflecting the data used to come to a conclusion. 
For example , statisticians use a “confidence interval” to provide a range of e stimates for a parameter with an 
unknown value. As an illustration, if you take a sample of 36 men in the U.S. and  find their average height is 70 
inches, and you know the standard deviatio n of height is 3 inches, you can say with 95  percent  confidence that 
the average height of all men is between 69 and 71  inches .8 Confidence in this sense is most relevant for normal, 
or bell -shaped, distributions.  
In many cases, confidence is a sense that has roots more in psychology than in statistics. Consider that the 
evidence shows that job interviews, as commonly done, are  largely ineffective. Even so, interviewers are often 
confident they have selected the right candidate for the job.9 This is consist ent with what Kahneman and the late 
Amos Tversky, a professor of psychology, called the “illusion of validity.” A good perceived fit between the 
predicted outcome and the input generates unjustified confidence.10 
In reality, analysts often fail to use stat ements of probability at all and resort to words or phrases that can be 
interpreted with a wide range of outcomes. For example, what does it mean if an economist suggests that a 
recession  in the next 12 months is a “real possibility?”11 Based on a survey of a large number of participants, 
interpretations of this phrase fall between 25 and 85 percent, a range that is neither informative nor helpful. 
Forecasts should include probabilities rather than words for the sake of clarity and as the  basis to provide 
feedback.    
Before we discuss methods to assess analytic  confidence, we need to spend a few moments on the ways to 
come up with probabilities and how they apply to this discussion.  
The Forms of Probability  
There are three main approache s to setting probabilities.12 The first is frequency, which is based on inference 
from a sample of an appropriate reference class. For example, if you rolled a die 1,000 times, you could say that 
the probability of landing on a 3 is 16.7 percent (1 in 6) b ased on the outcomes that you observe. Casinos rely 
on the frequency approach because they control the payoffs for various activities. While there is normal variance 
in the short run, the outcomes converge to the probabilities in the long run. For frequent ists, p robability  is the 
long-term frequency of events occurring.  
Second is the propensity approach, which is based on how a physical system generates outcomes. In this case, 
when a perfect cube is rolled that has the numbers 1 through 6 marked on each sid e, it will have the propensity 
--- Page 3 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 3 
 
to land with the “3” face up 16.7 percent of the time. Engineers commonly use this method when they assess 
the likelihood of physical systems failing.13  
The third is subjective, which says that probabilities are assessed bas ed on the personal belief of the observer. 
One way to pinpoint this probability is to measure an analyst’s willingness to bet.14 In this case, an analyst who 
is neutral to risk would be indifferent between doing nothing and betting $1 on rolling a 3 if the  payoff was $6 ($1 
= .167 × $6). Investment  analysts deal mostly with subjective probabilities.  
An analyst should revise his or her subjective probability, a measure of a degree of belief,  as new information 
becomes available. The formal way to do this is with Bayes’ Theorem, which updates a prior probability with a 
new probability conditioned on novel information.15 The frequentists and Bayesians have had intellectual feuds 
over which approach is superior, but most aspects of investing require a Bayesian a pproach.16 
That investors operate primarily with subjective probabilities does not mean that they cannot be set carefully or 
that the degree of confidence will not vary. We now turn to the heart of our di scussion : how to judge confidence 
in a probabilistic  assessment.  
Assessing Analytic Confidence  
Fried man and Zeckhauser describe three dimensions to analytic confidence: reliability of available evidence, 
range of reasonable opinion, and responsiveness to new information. They also ran experiments to affirm that 
each dimension contributed to how individuals made decisions. Experiment participants included members of 
the intelligence community as well as respondents on Amazon Mechanical Turk. We examine each source of 
confidence.  
Reliability of available evide nce. This dimension says an analyst has a sound basis for assessing uncertainty 
when they have a solid amount of relevant knowledge related to the case. It answers the question, “Can I defend 
this estimate with a substantial amount of information?”17 This dime nsion is based on facts rather than 
speculation or opinion. Facts and opinion are both important in investing, but facts should always carry more 
weight in assessing confidence.  
This dimension considers how much information is available, the importance of particular data points, how 
knowledgeable the analyst is about the topic, and whether independent sources converge on similar 
assessments.  
Information that is highly reliable can generate a wide variety of probabilities. For instance, when drawing one 
card from a complete deck of 52 cards, you can say with high confidence that the odds are 50 percent that the 
card is a particular color, 25 percent it is a specific suit, and 23 percent it is a court card.  
Likewise, t he same probability can reflect a range of  reliable information. A judgment that a candidate has a 50 
percent chance of winning may reflect either high confidence in a tight race or no information and therefore no 
basis to favor one candidate over another.  
Psychologists distinguish between two way s of coming up with a prior probability.18 The first is to examine base 
rates. This considers the current situation as an instance of a larger reference class. That allows the analyst to 
examine the distribution of past outcomes and to calibrate the probab ilities and outcomes for the case in 
question.   
--- Page 4 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 4 
 
The second approach, called the “inside view,” combines the particular conditions with personal inputs. This is 
a natural way to think but can overweight our experience in a way that distorts our perception.  Thoughtful 
forecasts are a blend of base rates and the inside view, but we tend to overweight the inside view. Participants 
in studies make better forecasts when they are exposed to, and consider, base rates.19  
The major challenge in applying base rates is finding an appropriate reference class. An analyst can be justifiably  
more confident when a problem is clearly part of a reference class that is well defined. There can also be a 
trade -off between specificity and sample size. You want the base rate to b e specific enough to capture what you 
are trying to estimate while at the same time having a sample size that is sufficient to draw a reasonable 
inference.  
Sales growth forecasting is a good illustration of where base rates can be useful for investors. Th is is relevant 
because sales growth is the most important driver of value for most businesses.20 Analysts commonly rely on 
the inside view when modeling sales growth even though research demonstrates that using base rates can 
improve the quality of sales g rowth forecasts.21  
Confidence in the reliability of available evidence is a mix of its strength and weight. Strength reflects the 
extremeness of outcomes, and weight is the predictive validity based on sample size. If you want to assess  your 
confidence th at a coin is biased to land on tails, the percentage of times the coin landed on tails captures the 
strength and the sample size sets the weight.  
Our degree of belief in a particular hypothesis typically integrates strength and  weight , and there are prescr ibed 
ways to combine them  properly . But forecasters tend to overemphasize the strength of evidence at the expense 
of its  justified weight.  This leads to a predictable pattern. Analysts are overconfident when the strength is high 
and weight is low (high per centage of tails in a small sample of flips) and underconfident when the strength is 
low and the weight is high (over 50 percent tails with a very large number of flips).22 
Confidence from reliability grows when the forecast is informed by a large sample of outcomes from an 
appropriate reference class. Confidence can also be the result of dispositive information, although that is rare in 
the investment industry.  
Range of rea sonable opinion. When you are  dealing with a complex system, the inputs may not lead to outputs 
in a simple fashion. That means that if people tamper with the system, even if their intentions are good, they do 
not know what outcomes their actions may produce.  This dimension answers th e question, “Might reasonable 
people  give substantially different answers to this question?”  
Climate change is a classic example. There is reliable evidence for a large and sustained increase in carbon 
dioxide (CO 2) in the atmosphere. The Earth’s CO 2 levels are in a range last seen millions of years ago.23 The 
challenge is that it is hard to determine the impact of this rise,  and scientists, who are equally serious and 
qualified, can come to different conclusions about the implications.24  
Psychologists cal l the probability assigned to an outcome “f irst order uncertainty .” The reasonable range of 
probabilities for first order uncertainty is called “s econd order uncertainty .” It describes how uncertain you are 
about an uncertain outcome.   
In February 2023, me dia reports said that the U.S. Energy Department had concluded that the Covid pandemic 
“most likely” arose from a laboratory leak but made its judgment with “low confidence.”25 One way to think about 
--- Page 5 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 5 
 
this is that the Energy Department deemed  the first orde r uncertainty to have probability of more than 50 percent 
(“most likely”) but  with a high  second order uncertainty (“low confidence”).  
One case of range of reasonable opinion in economics is an open letter that a number of economists, political 
strategists , and investors sent to Ben Bernanke in November 2010. Bernanke was at the time the chairman of 
the Federal Reserve . The letter expressed concern that asset purchases associated with quantitative easing 
“risk currency debasement and inflation .”26 The dolla r index forged higher and inflation remained muted in the 
following years. In 2014 , all the authors stood by their initial message.27 A charitable but sensible interpretation 
is that reasonable people could disagree on the consequences of quantitative easi ng and that the concerns this 
group expressed simply did not come to pass.  
An important takeaway is that confidence has to be, to some degree, related to the nature of the system. At one 
end of the spectrum are systems that are simple to understand, such a s dice and cards, which is why we use 
them to explain probabilities. There is no second order uncertainty with these systems. At the other end are 
systems that are complex and non -linear, where the distributions of the outcomes are “wild” and making 
foreca sts is inherently challenging.28 Economies and ecosystems are examples.29 Second order uncertainties 
are high.  
Investors deal with systems near both ends of the spectrum and their confidence should vary accordingly.30 This 
is especially relevant when trying to integrate macroeconomic factors with the drivers of corporate value.  
Responsiveness to new information. The idea is that analysts should be more confident when they expect 
that additional analysis will have littl e impact on their beliefs.  This answers the question, “ Is my view likely to 
change substantially if I study the subject further ?” 
The response reflects how strongly an analyst holds a prior view and the availability of useful information given 
the necessar y time and money to access it. This introduces the constraints of time and resources.  
Responsiveness to new information compels the decision maker to think about the cost and benefit of pursuing 
additional information. This sets a decision threshold. For a n investor, the issue is whether the pursuit of new 
information is likely to change the overall investment thesis. An investment thesis is based on a variant 
perception, the difference between what the investor believes will happen and what is priced into the stock.  
The idea is that there is almost always the opportunity to gather new information at a cost.  Early on, new 
information may change the thesis so the benefit of pursuing it is worth the cost . But at some point , additional 
information is unlikely t o change the thesis  so seeking  it is not worth the time and money.  The added evidence  
may not be noise, but its payoff is poor.  
Experiments have shown a noteworthy link between accessing additional information and confidence.31 
Researchers measured the ac curacy and confidence of participants ma king bets on college football games. 
Accuracy is the proportion of correct predictions, and confidence is the subjective probability of being correct. A  
participant is well calibrated when his or her subjective proba bilities match the outcomes. When subjective 
probabilities are higher than the outcomes, the participant is overconfident. When subjective probabilities are 
lower than the outcomes, the participant is underconfident.  
As participants gained access to more i nformation about the teams playing, their accuracy remained flat, but 
their confidence increased.  This means that the gap between subjective probability and the results widened. 
Additional data made the participants overconfident rather than smarter.  
--- Page 6 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 6 
 
This can be relevant for investors because gathering additional information can delay a decision, create a cost, 
or foster a false sense of confidence. The relationship between the amount of information and confidence is 
tricky and investors should be very mind ful of the trade -offs involved.  
These results have  a fascinating twist. The researchers developed a statistical model that became more 
accurate  when fed the extra cues. Th e model was better than the humans at incorporating new information. The 
confidence o f the participants tracked the statistical model, even though their accuracy did not improve. It is as 
if the participants knew that more information should lead to more accurate forecasts , but they did not have  the 
skill to integrate the additional data.  
Conclusion  
Success in active investing requires finding gaps between expected value and price. Expected value, in turn, 
consolidates outcomes and their associated probabilities. This report draws attention to th e distinction between 
probabilities and confidence in those probabilities. Further, we argue that assessing confidence is helpful in the 
investment process.  
Investors generally rely on subjective probabilities, or how strongly they believe various proposal s. These  
probabilities should be updated as new information is revealed. Bayes’ Theorem provides a proper way to update 
probabilities, but the key is to revise figures in the right direction and magnitude. Great forecasters refine their 
forecasts with grea ter frequency and granularity than do average forecasters.32  
Scholars who study analytic confidence describe three relevant dimensions : reliability of available evidence, 
range of reasonable opinion, and responsiveness to new information. Reliability says  that information exists to 
come to a sound conclusion. Range of reasonable opinion acknowledges that the outcomes in complex systems 
can be wide and difficult to forecast. Responsiveness to new information weighs how likely it is that a thesis will 
change  following the introduction of additional data.  
Investors can use these dimensions to complement their probability assessments and sharpen their ranking of 
investment opportunities. Confidence may also be valuable in assessing the potential weighting of i nvestments 
within a portfolio.  
 
Please see Important Disclosures on pages 9-11 
 
      
--- Page 7 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 7 
 
Endnotes  
1 Jeffrey A. Friedman and Richard Zeckhauser, “Analytic Confidence and Political Decision -Making: Theoretical 
Principles and Experimental Evidence From National Security Professionals,” Political Psychology , Vol. 39, No. 
5, October 2018, 1069 -1087 and Jeffrey A. Friedman, War and Chance: Assessing Uncertainty in International 
Politics  Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2019).  
2 Friedman and Zeckhauser, “Analytic Confidence.”  
3 For example see some of the quotes at Investment Master Class, “Position Sizing,” at 
http://mastersinvest.com/positionsizingquotes . 
4 Benjamin C . Ruisch  and C hadly  Stern, “The Confident Conservative: Ideological Differences in Judgment and 
Decision -Making Confidence ,” Journal of Experimental Psychology , Vol.  150, No. 3, March 2021, 527-544.  
5 Daniel Kahneman, Thinking, Fast and Slow  (New York: Farrar, Straus a nd Giroux , 2011), 212.  
6 Philip E. Tetlock, Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can We Know?  (Princeton, NJ: Princeton 
University Press, 2005) and Don A. Moore, Perfectly Confident: How to Calibrate Your Decisions Wisely  (New 
York: Harper Business, 2020).  
7 Andrew Mauboussin , “Why Are We So Confident?  Exploring a New Dataset of Confidence Calibration 
Assessments ,” Medium , October 17, 2017 . 
8 The confidence interval equals X ± Z × σ/√n where X is the mean, Z is the variabl e for a particular confidence 
interval, σ is the standard deviation (a measure of variance), and n is the size of the sample. In our example, the 
average height was 70 inches, Z is 1.96, σ is 3, and the sample is 36. We can be 95 percent confident that the 
average of the population is 70 inches +/ - 1 inch (1.96 × 3/6). 
9 Jason Dana, Robyn Dawes, Nathanial Peterson, “Belief in the Unstructured Interview: The Persistence of an 
Illusion,” Judgment and Decision Making , Vol. 8, No. 5, September 2013, 512 -520 and Geoff Tuff, Steve 
Goldbach, and Jeff Johnson , “When Hiring, Prioritize Assignments Over Interviews ,” Harvard Business Review , 
September 27, 2022 . 
10 Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, “On the Psychology of Prediction,”  Psychological Review , Vol. 80, No . 
4, July 1973, 237 -251. 
11 Andrew Mauboussin and Michael J. Mauboussin , “If You Say Something Is ‘Likely, ’ How Likely Do People 
Think It Is? ” Harvard Business Review  Blog, July 3, 2018 . 
12 Gerd Gigerenzer, Calculated Risks: How to Know When Numbers Deceiv e You  (New York: Simon & Schuster, 
2002), 26 -28 and Friedman, War and Chance , 52-58. 
13 Gigerenzer tells the story of the Ariane rocket, produced by Daimler -Benz Aerospace, which purportedly had 
a “security factor” of 99.6 percent in spite of repeated acci dents. The security factor was calculated based on 
the physical features of the rocket and ignored other variables including human error. See Gigerenzer, 
Calculated Risks , 28-29. 
14 For a book that treats this topic and more, see Annie Duke, Thinking in Bets: Making Smarter Decisions When 
You Don't Have All the Facts  (New York: Portfolio/Penguin, 2018).  
15 For a good discussion of Bayes’ Theorem, see Nate Silver, The Signal and the Noise: Why So Many 
Predictions Fail —But Some Don’t  (New York, The Penguin Press, 2012), 232 -261. For a practical discussion of 
how to apply this to investment analysis, see Yiding Lu, Geoff Robinson, and Amar Hamoudi, “Fundamental 
Analytics —Improve Your Fo recasting Accuracy: Adopt a Bayesian Mindset,” UBS Global Research and 
Evidence Lab , October 25, 2022.  
16 Sharon Bertsch McGrayne, The Theory That Would Not Die: How Bayes’ Rule Cracked the Enigma Code, 
Hunted Down Russian Submarines, and Emerged Triumphan t from Two Centuries of Controversy  (New Haven, 
CT: Yale University Press, 2011).  
17 Based on Friedman and Zeckhauser, “Analytic Confidence and Political Decision -Making .” 
18 This discussion relies heavily on Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, “On the Psych ology of Prediction,” 
Psychological Review , Vol. 80, No. 4, July 1973, 237 -251. 
19 Dan Lovallo and Daniel Kahneman, “Delusions of Success:  How Optimism Undermines Executives’ 
Decisions ,” Harvard Business Review , Vol. 81, No. 7, July 2003,  56-63. 
20 Michael J. Mauboussin and Alfred Rappaport, Expectations Investing: Reading Stock Prices for Better 
Returns —Revised and Updated (New York: Columbia Business School Publishing, 2021), 53.  
--- Page 8 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 8 
 
21 Etienne Theising, Dominik Wied, Daniel Ziggel , “Reference Class Selection in Similarity -Based Forecasting 
of Corporate Sales Growth , Journal of Forecasting , forthcoming.  
22 Dale Griffin and Amos Tversky, “The Weighting of Evidence and the Determinants of Confidence,” Cognitive 
Psychology , Vol. 24, No. 3, July 1992, 411 -435. 
23 “Carbon dioxide now more than 50% higher than pre -industrial levels ,” National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Association , June 3, 2022 . 
24 Nicholas Stern, “ Current Climate Models Are Grossly Misleading , Nature , Vol. 530, February 25, 2016, 407-
409. 
25 Michael R. Gordon and Warren P. Strobel, “Lab Leak Most Likely Origin of Covid -19 Pandemic, Energy 
Department Now Says,” Wall Street Journal , February 26, 2023.  
26 “Open Letter to Ben Bernanke ,” November 15, 2010. See www.wsj.com/articles/BL -REB-12460 . 
27 Caleb Melby, Laura Marcinek , and Danielle Burger , “Fed Critics Say ’10 Letter Warning Inflation Still Right ,” 
Bloomberg , October 2, 2014 . 
28 Benoit B. Mandelbrot and Nassim Nicholas Taleb , “Mild vs. Wild Randomness: Focusing on Those  Risks That  
Matter ,” in The Known, the Unknown, and the Unknowable in Financial Risk Management : Measurement and 
Theory Advancing Practice , Francis X. Diebold , Neil A. Doherty , and Richard J. Herring, editors , (Princeton, NJ: 
Princeton University Press, 2010), 47-58 and Nassim Nicholas Taleb, “ On the Statistical Differences between 
Binary Forecasts and Real World Payoffs ,” International Journal of Forecasting , Vol. 36, No. 4, October 2020, 
1228 -1240 . 
29 Garrett Hardin, best known for his work on the tragedy of t he commons, describes three filters against folly: 
the literate, the numerate, and the ecolate . The ecolate addresses dealing with a complex system. As Hardin 
writes, the essential question with ecolate analysis is, “And then what?” See Garrett Hardin, Filters Against Folly: 
How to Survive Despite Economists, Ecologists, and the Merely Eloquent  (New York: Penguin Books, 1985).  
30 There has been a recent back -and-forth between Phil Tetlock, a professor of psychology, and Nassim Taleb, 
the author. Tetlock and his colleagues suggest that certain types of problems with binary outcomes are useful 
to study, with the goal of improving su bjective probabilities. Taleb and his colleagues call Tetlock’s research 
agenda a “masquerade” that fails to consider consequential outcomes of systems with fat tails. Tetlock 
acknowledges Taleb’s viewpoint, but the reverse does not appear to be true. See Philip E. Tetlock, Yunzi Lu,  
and Barbara A. Mellers , “False Dichotomy Alert: Improving Subjective -Probability Estimates vs. Raising 
Awareness of Systemic Risk,” International Journal of Forecasting , Vol. 39, No. 2, April -June 2023, 1021 -1025  
and Nassim Nicholas Taleb, Ronald Richman, Marcos Carreira,  and James Sharpe , “The Probability Conflation: 
A Reply to Tetlock et al .” International Journal of Forecasting , Vol. 39, No. 2, April -June 2023, 102 6-1029. 
31 Claire I. Tsai, Joshua Klayman, and Reid Hastie, “Effects of Amount of Information on Judgment Accuracy 
and Confidence,” Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , Vol. 107, No.  2, November 2008,  
97-105. For an early paper on this work, see Paul Slovic , “Behavioral Problems of Adhering  to a Decision Policy ,” 
Working Paper , May 1, 1973 . 
32 Jeffrey A. Friedman, Joshua D. Baker, Barbara A. Mellers, Philip E. Tetlock, and Richard Zeckhauser, “ The 
Value of Precision in Probability Assessment: Evidence from a  Large -Scale Geopolitical Forecast ing 
Tournament ,” International Studies Quarterly , Vol. 62, No. 2, March 2018,  410-422. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
--- Page 9 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 9 
 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION  
The views and opinions and/or analysis expressed are those of the author as of the date of preparation of this 
material and are subject to change at any time due to market or economic conditions and may not necessarily 
come to pass. Furthermore, the views will not be updated or otherwise revised to refle ct information that 
subsequently becomes available or circumstances existing, or changes occurring, after the date of publication. 
The views expressed do not reflect the opinions of all investment personnel at Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management (MSIM) an d its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively “the Firm”), and may not be reflected in all 
the strategies and products that the Firm offers.  
 
Forecasts and/or estimates provided herein are subject to change and may not actually come to pass. 
Information regarding expected market returns and market outlooks is based on the research, analysis and 
opinions of the authors or the investment team. These conclusions are speculative in nature, may not come to 
pass and are not intended to predict the f uture performance of any specific strategy or product the Firm offers. 
Future results may differ significantly depending on factors such as changes in securities or financial markets or 
general economic conditions.  
 
Past performance is no guarantee of futu re results. This material has been prepared on the basis of publicly 
available information, internally developed data and other third -party sources believed to be reliable. However, 
no assurances are provided regarding the reliability of such information a nd the Firm has not sought to 
independently verify information taken from public and third -party sources. The views expressed in the books 
and articles referenced in this whitepaper are not necessarily endorsed by the Firm.  
 
This material is a general comm unications which is not impartial and has been prepared solely for information 
and educational purposes and does not constitute an offer or a recommendation to buy or sell any particular 
security or to adopt any specific investment strategy. The material c ontained herein has not been based on a 
consideration of any individual client circumstances and is not investment advice, nor should it be construed in 
any way as tax, accounting, legal or regulatory advice. To that end, investors should seek independent legal 
and financial advice, including advice as to tax consequences, before making any investment decision.  
 
Charts and graphs provided herein are for illustrative purposes only. Any securities referenced herein are solely 
for illustrative purposes only an d should not be construed as a recommendation for investment.  
 
This material is not a product of Morgan Stanley’s Research Department and should not be regarded as a 
research material or a recommendation.  
 
The Firm has not authorised financial intermediar ies to use and to distribute this material, unless such use and 
distribution is made in accordance with applicable law and regulation. Additionally, financial intermediaries are 
required to satisfy themselves that the information in this material is approp riate for any person to whom they 
provide this material in view of that person’s circumstances and purpose. The Firm shall not be liable for, and 
accepts no liability for, the use or misuse of this material by any such financial intermediary.  
 
The whole or any part of this work may not be directly or indirectly reproduced, copied, modified, used to create 
a derivative work, performed, displayed, published, posted, licensed, framed, distributed or transmitted or any 
of its contents disclosed to third  parties without MSIM’s express written consent. This work may not be linked to 
unless such hyperlink is for personal and non -commercial use. All information contained herein is proprietary 
and is protected under copyright and other applicable law.  
Eaton V ance is part of Morgan Stanley Investment Management. Morgan Stanley Investment Management is 
the asset management division of Morgan Stanley.  
 
This material may be translated into other languages. Where such a translation is made this English version 
rema ins definitive. If there are any discrepancies between the English version and any version of this material 
in another language, the English version shall prevail.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- Page 10 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 10 
 
DISTRIBUTION  
 
This communication is only intended for and will only be distributed to persons resident in jurisdictions 
where such distribution or availability would not be contrary to local laws or regulations.  
 
MSIM, the asset management division of Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS), and its affiliates have 
arrangements in place to  market each other’s products and services.   Each MSIM affiliate is regulated 
as appropriate in the jurisdiction it operates.  MSIM’s affiliates are:  Eaton Vance Management 
(International) Limited, Eaton Vance Advisers International Ltd, Calvert Research an d Management, 
Eaton Vance Management, Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC, and Atlanta Capital Management LLC.  
 
This material has been issued by any one or more of the following entities:  
 
EMEA  
This material is for Professional Clients/Accredited Investors only.  
In the EU, MSIM and Eaton Vance materials are issued by MSIM Fund Management (Ireland) Limited (“FMIL”). 
FMIL is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland and is incorporated in Ireland as a private company limited by 
shares with company registration number 616661 and has its registered address at 24 -26 City Quay, Dublin 2, 
DO2 NY19, Ireland.  
 
Outside the EU, MSIM materials are issued by Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited (MSIM Ltd) is 
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registered in England. Registered No. 1981121. 
Registered Ofﬁce: 25 Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QA.  
 
In Switzerland, MSIM materials are issued by Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, London (Zurich Branch) 
Authorised and regulated by the Eidgenössische Finanzmarktaufsicht ("FINMA"). Registered Office: 
Beethovenstrasse 33, 8002 Zurich, Switzerland.  
 
Outside the US and EU, Eaton Vance materials are issued by Eaton Vance Management (International) Limited 
(“EVMI”) 125 Old Broad Street, London, EC2N 1AR, UK, which is authorised and regulated in the United 
Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority.  
 
Italy:  MSIM FMIL (Milan Branch), (Sede Secondaria di Milano) Palazzo Serbelloni Corso Venezia, 16 20121 
Milano, Italy. The Netherlands: MSIM FMIL (Amsterdam Branch), Rembrandt Tower, 11th Floor Amstelplein 1 
1096HA, Netherlands. France:  MSIM FMIL (Paris Branch), 61 rue de Monceau 75008 Paris, France. Spain: 
MSIM FMIL (Madrid Branch), Calle Serrano 55, 28006, Madrid, Spain. Germany : MSIM FMIL Frankfurt Branch, 
Große Gallusstraße 18, 60312 Frankfurt am Main, Germany (Gattung: Zweigniederlassung (FDI) gem. § 53b 
KWG) . Denmark:  MSIM FMIL (Copenhagen Branch), Gorrissen Federspiel, Axel Towers, Axeltorv2, 1609 
Copenhagen V, Denmark.  
 
MIDDLE EAST  
Dubai : MSIM Ltd (Representative Office, Unit Precinct 3 -7th Floor -Unit 701 and 702, Level 7, Gate Precinct 
Building 3, Dubai In ternational Financial Centre, Dubai, 506501, United Arab Emirates. Telephone: +97 (0)14 
709 7158).  
 
This document is distributed in the Dubai International Financial Centre by Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management Limited (Representative Office), an entity  regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority 
(“DFSA”). It is intended for use by professional clients and market counterparties only. This document is not 
intended for distribution to retail clients, and retail clients should not act upon the infor mation contained in this 
document.  
  
U.S. 
NOT FDIC INSURED | OFFER NO BANK GUARANTEE | MAY LOSE VALUE | NOT INSURED BY ANY 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AGENCY | NOT A DEPOSIT  
 
 
 
 
 
--- Page 11 ---
   
 
 
© 2024 Morgan Stanley.  All rights reserved.  6506960  Exp. 3/31/2025 11 
 
ASIA PACIFIC  
Hong Kong: This material  is disseminated by Morgan Stanley Asia Limited for use in Hong Kong and shall only 
be made available to “professional investors” as defined under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong 
Kong (Cap 571). The contents of this material  have not been revi ewed nor approved by any regulatory authority 
including the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong. Accordingly, save where an exemption is 
available under the relevant law, this material  shall not be issued, circulated, distributed, directed at, o r made 
available to, the public in Hong Kong.  Singapore: This material is disseminated by Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management Company and  should not be considered to be the subject of an invitation for subscription or 
purchase, whether directly or indirec tly, to the public or any member of the public in Singapore other than (i) to 
an institutional investor under section 304 of the Securities and Futures Act, Chapter 289 of Singapore (“SFA”); 
(ii) to a “relevant person” (which includes an accredited investo r) pursuant to section 305 of the SFA, and such 
distribution is in accordance with the conditions specified in section 305 of the SFA; or (iii) otherwise pursuant 
to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. This publication has not 
been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.   Australia: This material is provided by Morgan Stanley 
Investment Management (Australia) Pty Ltd ABN 22122040037, AFSL No. 314182 and its affiliates and does 
not constitute an off er of interests. Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Australia) Pty Limited arranges for 
MSIM affiliates to provide financial services to Australian wholesale clients. Interests will only be offered in 
circumstances under which no disclosure is required under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the “Corporations 
Act”). Any offer of interests will not purport to be an offer of interests in circumstances under which disclosure is 
required under the Corporations Act and will only be made to persons who qualify as a “wholesale client” (as 
defined in the Corporations Act). This material will not be lodged with the Australian Securities and Investments 
Commission.  
 
Japan  
This material may not be circulated or distributed, whether directly or indirectly, to persons  in Japan other than 
to (i) a professional investor as defined in Article 2 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (“FIEA”) or 
(ii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other allocable provision of the FIEA. 
This mate rial is disseminated in Japan by Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Japan) Co., Ltd., 
Registered No. 410 (Director of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments Firms)), Membership: the 
Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Investment Trusts Association, Japan, the Japan Investment 
Advisers Association and the Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association.  